UN Global Hackathon on AI for Digital Trade Regulatory Analysis
Cleaned Transcript - Orientation Workshop, 1 June 2026

Note: This text was generated from the provided SRT transcript. Timestamps and caption numbering were removed. Obvious transcription errors were corrected where the workshop presentations supplied clear context, especially names of the event, RDTII, automation zones, outputs, assignments, and judging criteria.

Opening, Housekeeping, and Welcome Remarks
------------------------------------------

These workshops also include hands-on sessions for shortlisted teams like yourselves to help you understand the requirements of the competition better. My name is Nikita Shahu and I will be serving as both your moderator and one of your presenters for today's session. Before we start, I would like to make some housekeeping announcements. If you have any questions, please put them in the Q&A box.

Secondly, if you drop off this meeting, you can rejoin using the same link as you did before. And to get acquainted with each other, please put your team name and your first name as your Zoom display name or the Zoom display name basically. Now to kick off this session, I would like to welcome Dr. Yann Duval and Dr. Somyatka Wannidwilai to give us their opening remarks. Dr. Yann is the Chief of the Trade Policy and Facilitation Section at the United Nations ESCAP. He has spearheaded the creation of the ESCAP World Bank Trade Cost Database as well as the UN Global Survey on Digital and Sustainable Trade Facilitation. He also led the ESCAP Secretariat team in supporting the negotiation of the new UN Treaty on the facilitation of cross-border paperless trade in Asia and the Pacific.

Dr. Somyat is the Dean at the School of Engineering at King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang. His work in robotics, AI, mechatronics and control system has resulted in more than 150 journals and conference papers. His research interests include mechatronics, smart cities, control systems and AI. Welcome to the both of you and thank you for being here. Dr. Yann, you can have the floor first.

Thank you very much Nikita. A very warm welcome to everyone who is here. I think I'm looking at the number 84. Maybe it's on average we have more than two people per team because my understanding is that 44 teams have been shortlisted out of 129 teams who applied to participate in this. So again, for those who were selected and shortlisted, congratulations. That was quite a tough selection process already in this very initial round. This is quite a unique initiative, at least for ESCAP. We've done policy hackathons in the past, mostly focusing on involving policymakers or policy drafters and lawyers. But this one is quite unique because it's supposed to combine AI for regulation and laws. So we need the legal, the regulatory aspect and we also need the technical AI coding aspect.

And so bringing teams together like this, I think it's both technical and legal teams. So everything is very, very special and very exciting at least for us. So I really look forward to see how this hackathon is going to turn out. And then thank you very much to all of you for participating. Also thank you to King Mongkut's Institute of Technology of Technology for being our partner with this. And we really look forward to a very nice and informative process as we go through this hackathon. So why did we decide to proceed with such an hackathon? Essentially the background is that we do a lot of research on regulations and policies in particular. My colleague, Witada, he has been very much involved in doing research on digital trade regulation and laws.

And then we cover, as you may know, ESCAP covers more than 48 countries. So when we say Asia-Pacific for ESCAP, it's actually all the countries between Iran and Turkey on one side and also Australia and New Zealand on the other side. And all the countries in between those two countries, those countries are actually members of ESCAP. So it's a very, very big region. And then we try to keep track of regulations on digital trade among the 48 economies in that region. And so it's very challenging because obviously every economy, every country has a different law. They have different laws, they have different regulations, they have different ways of putting their laws and regulations online. Some don't, some do, many do, but it's in a very, very fast fashion and not very structured and quite different.

So what we have done until now is we've used completely manual processes and we've got teams of researchers that at Nikita is part of this. Witada as well as leading the big teams I see coming to our office or online trying to collect all that data manually. And this is very, very time consuming. For one country, 12 dimensions that we have on indicators, we're talking about weeks of work. And so obviously with AI, in principle, we should be able to streamline some of that work. And so that's really the purpose of the hackathon. And in the air, it's really not to replace the researcher because the human-in-the-loop component remains very, very essential. I mean, there is no expectation that you can replace 100% what the researchers have been doing.

But all the very challenging, tedious parts of the work, for example, gathering all the information and then processing very, very long texts and regulations. This can be done using AI. That's really what we are looking for here. And also, if we manage to make it happen this way, then we'll be able to sustain our work because so far it's very costly actually for us to collect all this data. And so what we want is we want to be able to do it on a six-monthly or annual basis at least. And so that's something that will be made possible if we manage to automate and streamline some of the processes. So what tonight is about, as I understand, is quite a long session.

So I think get ready with the popcorn and the drinks. But we're going to explain to you everything you need to start building what we are looking for. And on 4th of June, there will be knowledge from practitioners that will be disseminated. So we've got a number of legal experts, W2 analysts, researchers from the EU. We're going to share some of their knowledge on how they've been using AI for regulatory analysis. On 5th of June, so there will be hands-on exercises with real examples. So please plan on participating in this. I know some of you may have very advanced expertise, some of you less. But I think it's useful to participate in all of those sessions so you really understand what the purpose and goal of the work is.

And on 11th and 12th June, we'll have knowledge sharing from the technical side of this type of work. And then on 15th June, there will be a wrap-up with Q&A so you still have time to ask more questions and get clarification as you proceed with the building. So I encourage all of you to keep trying. I think it's a process, a process just starting today. So good luck to everyone. And then we'll have, at the end of the day, five teams who will win and then potentially come to Bangkok for additional work and presentation. So on that note, thank you to all of you for being with us today. And good luck.

Thank you, Yann. Dr. Samyut, you can have the floor now. Yes. Hello, everyone. Good evening from Thailand. So this is Gikol, he's from UN ESCAP, fellow faculty, and most expertly, the 44 teams who have earned a seat in tonight's room. Welcome and on behalf of the School of Engineering at KMITL, congratulations. 129 teams from across more than 30 countries submitted to this hackathon. Each applicant was reviewed twice, once on the strength of the written proposal and a second time on what the team's CV, technical memo, and concept video could actually demonstrate. 44 teams survived this process. That is not luck, but that is a visible part of months of reading, research and engineering thinking you can each did before you ever please submit.

You are here because the evidence on the page convinced an independent committee that you can build these systems, not only describe it. So this hackathon sits at the intersection of three things, KMITL takes it easily, digital engineering, public interest technology, and regional collaboration. So the digital trade rules in Asia and the Pacific are written by national government, but they affect every business that chips software across the border. Reading this rule is clearly slow, error-prone, and difficult to verify. Building tools that make this work faster and more reliably, sightable, is exactly the kind of problems where engineering schools have something to contribute. And you are here because of these lessons. So the partnership between UN ESCAP and KMITL on this hackathon is one we applaud to anchor.

We will provide technical mentorship infrastructure where it is needed and a clear-fire and demanding evaluation framework. We expect from you the same standard chip code that runs size source you can define and document choice that another engineer can reproduce. To the 44 teams today, you have already shown us what you can promise. Over the next six weeks, show us what you can build. We are here to help you do exactly that. Welcome to this hackathon. The floor is now yours. Congratulations and welcome to this hackathon again. Good luck.

Thank you, Dr. Yann and Dr. Samyut, for your remarks and opening the session.

Hackathon Overview and Round 1 Requirements
-------------------------------------------

You both rightly said how unique this event is and how big the task at hand is going to be. And we wish all the luck to our teams to rise up to the challenge. So for our first session, I would like to welcome and introduce the hackathon and ESCAP and KMITL team leads. Dr. Witada Anukoonwattaka, Dr. Ratapu Parichaprita, and Dr. Thanavit Anuwampinit. Dr. Vittada is the Senior Economist at the United Nations ESCAP, where she leads research and capacity-building initiatives on digital trade and trade policy. She directs ESCAP's programs on digital trade policy, including the Regional Digital Trade Integration Index and Regulations, and works closely with regional and global partners to advance inclusive digital transformation across Asia and the Pacific.

Dr. Ratapu is the Vice Dean and Lecturer at the School of Engineering at King Mongkut's Institute of Technology. His expertise spans railway engineering, infrastructure testing, and advanced materials. He has led major innovation centers and contributed to Thailand's railway development projects, and conducted extensive research on railway systems and applications of AI in civil engineering. And finally, we have Dr. Thanavit, who is the Deputy Head of the IOT and Information Engineering Program at KEM Institute. His work focuses on microprocessors, embedded systems, IOT technologies, and smart infrastructure solutions, particularly in railway signaling and communications. He is actively involved in applied research and academic leadership, supporting engineering, education, and innovation. All three of you, I invite you to provide a detailed overview of the hackathon, and you have 30 minutes to make this presentation. The floor is yours.

Thank you very much, Nikita. And welcome again, everyone. I congratulate your success in passing the application route. Now, you are entering what we call Route 1, which is a very important milestone. And now I am going to explain, I'm trying to explain the key things that you need to know to be able to complete this route and be ready also for the final route. Can you please turn to my first slide, please? Yes. So, the... If you remember, right, when you submit your applications, you have submitted your profiles and also your plan of architecture, your two architectures. That was your plan. You may create, when you have limited understanding about the framework that we are going to use, you have limited information about the scope of the challenge that you will have to do in this hackathon.

So, today we are going to tell you all about that, and you will also learn as a process during the whole two weeks of the webinar as well. In this route, we call Route 1, right? It's a build process. You will change from the plan that you propose to a product, a small product. You are allowed to change your plan because, as I mentioned, when you build your plan in the applications, you may not have a clear understanding about the framework yet. So, you have to revisit your plan and improve it further to make sure that the product that you will do in this route works well.

Next slide, please.

Let me tell you a little bit more about the scope of the competition. I define the factors that you have to keep in mind in three things. First, about the flows of your automations, we call it Zone 1 and Zone 2. Basically, your tools will be built to cover from Zone 1 to Zone 2. Zone 1 is about automating the process of legal evidence discovery. Your tools will be built to crawl websites, official websites of the government, retrieve information. Your tools may also have to deal with optical character recognition, to extract those characters and process. That are the processes of automating discovery of legal evidence. And then the information that you discover in Zone 1 will be processed in Zone 2.

This process is called intelligent mapping because you have to, from the legal provisions that you discover in Zone 1, you have to map them automatically into the analytical framework which we give you in this competition. You have to map them to the framework and you have also to provide accurate citations. So all your analysis and your evidence should be able to track and verify. These are mandatory zones that your tools have to cover. That is another zone after Zone 2. This is going to be your option zone. It's optional. If you manage to go to Zone 3, you will earn extra points. This zone 3 is related to assess the information that processed in Zone 2 and recorded in the scoring structures which is explained with clear criteria given in the framework, the RDTII framework, which you will learn in the next presentation of my colleagues.

RDTII framework is the analytical framework that you will use for the whole process of this category. RDTII stands for Regional Digital Trade Integration Index. It is our framework that we use in analyzing digital trade regulations and compare them across many, many countries in Asia Pacific and also compare with other countries in different continents. RDTII is a global framework for helping regulatory researchers to compare and evaluate the environment of digital trade systems in each economy. What you have to do in these hackathons is to maintain the last of RDTII. Pillars are Pillars 6 and 7. Some of you might already check into what do we mean by Pillars 6 and 7. If any of you have not been familiar with, you need to catch up because this is going to stay with you throughout the process until your final complete chance of the products.

Pillars 6 and 7 are both talking about data regulations. Pillars 6 cover regulations related to cross-border data flows. Pillars 7 cover regulations related to data protection. There will be indicators inside Pillars. Each indicator will have explanations of what kind of laws, evidence that you need to look into. These pillars are required for your tools when you build it for each economy that you are given. In RDTII framework, we have more than these two pillars. Actually, we have 12 pillars. So if you manage to cover beyond those two mandatory pillars, you will also earn extra points.

The third part in this slide is about the scope of economies that you have to cover in the challenge. In this round, which is round 1, you will be asked to cover three economies, Singapore, Australia and Malaysia. We will give you datasets of these three economies for you to practice before you start looking into the real website and extract more updates, more comprehensive information than the sample data that you will be given. In round 1, you will have to submit at least three economies that we mentioned. And then if you are shortlisted for the final round, you will have to handle more countries. We will give you eight countries, which is listed in this slide. At least three of these eight additional countries should be covered in your final submissions. More countries earn extra points.

Next slide, please.

This slide explains your thought process and your output expectations in each source. I will not go into it because it would spend a lot of time, but you will get the slides. And you will be able to look into it after these sessions. Next slide, please.

I would like to elaborate a little further about your country assignment, scope of your country assignments. As I mentioned, in this round, round 1, you have to cover Singapore, Australia and Malaysia. These three countries are relatively easier than what you will be doing in the final round. Because these three countries have quite well-documented their legal evidence, they have law and regulations available in English. So it would be a good starting point for you to get familiar with the workflow. You will go into websites, relevant websites of Singapore, Australia, Malaysia, to look for evidence and match them with requirements of indicators under pillar 6 and 7 of RDTII. we give Malaysia a little more weight when we will evaluate your product. Because in Malaysia, you will be more challenged by the data sets that you will have to be able to detect errors in your sample data sets.

Correct it. So if you manage to do accurately both Singapore, Australia and Malaysia, you get full points. If you manage to do partly, then the point will be data accordingly. In the final round, eight more countries are given. They don't have regulations in English. Some countries may have in English, but the legal structure is complex. So it would be more challenging in the final round. And Timor-Leste is the bonus country because you will get extra points if you manage to solve Timor-Leste challenge. The reason is, Timor-Leste, you would have to do everything from scratch. We don't provide any hints for Timor-Leste for you. When other countries, you still be able to detect some hints from the sample data sets that we will provide you.

If you manage to do more than three countries in the final round, your points will be higher proportionally than what you did is also accurate. Next slide, please. This slide is giving you the list of often found challenge. You may come across this when you develop the products. You may also found other challenge that I don't, I haven't list here. So please study the slides later in after the session. Next slide, please.

Now we are going to evaluate you. This slide is the rubric that we will evaluate your product for this round. 40% we will give for substantive accuracy. 30% on technical resilience and 30% on architecture. In substantive accuracy, we look at whether your product eventually be able to map evidence correctly into RDTII framework, whether you be able to identify new evidence, and whether you provide articles and text. Clearly, have you be able to put clear locations of where those evidence are. In the second matrix of the rubric, which is technical resilience, we will be looking at how you manage the autonomously navigate live government portals, how you be able to come across difficult challenge when you have to retrieve laws from those source. Have you be able to manage the non-standard documents like image or HTML or non-structured output. And whether you be able to cover end-to-end workflow without so much of manual steps.

The last matrix for this round on architecture will be looking at how you decide your backend. We look for modular backend, meaning that your product should be easily to swap between modules without having to rewrite the core pipeline of your backend architecture. Your architecture should provide audit trail. We should be able to search back into where you have been extracted the information. We should be able to verify your information. So you have to decide the system that facilitates those process. And we also look at your cost efficiencies. We will ask you to provide evidence of actual operational costs. I provide some insights that we observed when we have done this type of exercise in-house in ESCAP. So we found that HTML source are quite difficult to handle more than PDF. So if we found that you have been able to cope both HTML and PDF, then your points will be higher than the other teams that only cope with PDF, for example.

And if you be able to do, to collect evidence accurately and go beyond what we have to provide, the more, the better, the more is the higher differentiators. Next slide, please.

This slide is showing you some ideas about good and bad output. So it's, so then you have some ideas of how you will be evaluated. I give examples. This is very simple, hypothetical examples of Team A and Team B. They were asked to look, they decide the tools and they retrieve Thailand PDPA laws. PDPA is Privacy Data Protection Act. Team A, they are able to identify three articles, which actually is also similar to what we have provide in our existing database. So they didn't detect any new evidence. If they done it correctly, they will have, for example, 20% of 44 points. But compared to Team B, they have been able to find new evidence that never be record in our existing datasets.

So Team B will earn higher score than Team A, for sure, if the new evidence is correct. And we say more than 20 because they got more than Team A. However, how much more than it depends on how many more new evidence that they can provide. So if your tools be able to provide as much as relevant evidence, you got higher scores.

Next slide, please.

This slide shows you an example of strong output and weak output in the context of citation quality. Team A provides strong output because as you can see, they, if you compare Team A in green and Team B in red, right? Team A provide clear indicator what that map directly to the framework. They refer to the data that they are showing the evidence is referring to pillar six indicator one. In Team B, the output only say, "Oh, this evidence is under cross-border data." They don't map directly to archetype framework. So they will be scholars. And then in the second row, Team A provides stronger citations. They cite clearly that this evidence is coming from section 26, Part 2 of the law in page 14, and they provide UIL.

That will look into those citations and check accuracies. But Team B, the citation that they provide is low level of traceability. The third row shows that Team A be able to identify that the evidence they provide is new evidence. Team B doesn't say anything. In the fourth row, Team A provide verbatim text, quoting from the evidence that they extract. So they quote word by word from the relevant paragraph of the law in the section 26, Part 2 that they provide. In Team B, in red, they only provide paraphrase. So in this case, judge will not be able to verify the quality of the evidence. In the last row, Team A have provide recent justification of why they think this regulation, this paragraph is relevant evidence when Team B, they provide very vague justification of their mapping logic.

So in this example, Team A wins over Team B in all aspects. Next slide, please. In this slide, we provide explanations of how we look into your technical resilience and architecture. Our evaluators will look beyond accuracies, but they will test your engineering decisions. We look at how you manage live photo falling. If your tools really navigate law's website, taking correctly to come across and extract based on hierarchy of the law autonomously, retrieve evidence without manual steps. You are on a strong team compared to the other teams that only look into pre-download PDF. So the first group will scum higher. On looking at the evidence document, with many cases, you have to navigate using OCR on-scan PDF. If you are able to extract clearly preserved structures and have small errors, you are on a good terms.

The third matrix looking at your modular backend. So I give examples of one team you can swap quite easily between OpenAI API with LAMAR 3 without having to change significant on the configuration. When Team B is LAM hardcore, so replacing swapping models means rebuilding pretty much of their core code would score much less.

This is the timeline from today until your final round if you manage to get through it. So after these two weeks' workshops, your important milestone is the 20th of July, where you have to submit your tools. We will shortlist you further from today we have 44 teams. We will end to shortlist only 20 teams for doing live pitch on 3rd August. After those 20 teams live pitch, only 5 teams will come to Bangkok to present their final pitch.

I hope that by the end of the workshop series, you decide your roadmap of your tools will be much more clearer than what you have submitted to us. In order to achieve that, I suggest three key things. First, you need to familiarize yourself with the assignments that I explained before and also make familiarity with RDTII framework. This will be your most important step to make full technical and substantive submissions good enough for you to be able to be shortlisted. Everyone in the team should look into those materials that we provide in knowledge products. The technical leads or technical teams also have to understand the framework. The policy team may not be able to cope and verify the typical members in the team provide. So it would be very important to understand what is required, what is the criteria, what is in RDTII framework.

The second part that you have to cover is to make it clear who is doing what in the team and agree before the build window opens. The third part is to think of what technical stack you would use to cope with zone 1 and zone 2 of the tools.

Next slide please. I will hand it over to my colleagues from the technical side.

You will shortlist our storm field and I think you plan to develop your work after this. I think you know I am Tanawith from the School of Engineering, TMI, TRL and me and Dr. Ratopoom will explain more about the detail about the first round. I think you now know how you will be done. Including the substantive accuracy, the technical resilience and the architecture. This slide turns into the checklist of what is hand by the 20th of July. The number one is the functional prototype. The functional prototype means the working engine that can run the task 1 and task 2 end to end. It should be able to discover legal source, retrieve document, extract text, map, provision to the RDTII, indicate the structure output.

It must also include a quick start with MI5 so the reviewer can install and run the system to check. The number 2 is the structure output file in the format of JSON or CSV. The second deliverable is the structure output file that I said is preferable in bot CSV and JSON format. These outputs are important because they allow bot policy reviewers and technical reviewers to inspect your results.

Next is the technical pitch deck. This deck should explain your problem solution field. The system design, extraction logic, mapping logic for both task 1 and task 2. I think you will provide pitch deck template in the resource that will provide to you later. The number 4 is the screen recording work tool. The fourth deliverable is the screen record work tool that I said of no more than 10 minutes. The third deliverable should show your engine processing real document, especially scanned PDF and producing correct citation with 10 minutes maximum. Number 5, I think if you submit your function over the type, output file, change the pitch deck and screen recording, and if you want the 20 shortlist, you will have the live demo and interview on the third of August.

Your engine must run and produce output in real time. This is not a slight presentation. We want to see your engine actually work.

Your engine must run in real time and produce output in front of the review panel. On our chart, move to the next slide, please. This slide makes deliverable one concrete. What does it run? What does it run? From the reviewable perspective, in the left side, the requirement is here. From the reviewable perspective, a running system provides input, such as a country and topic. The engine should continue the workflow automatically without manual steps in between. For example, if the reviewer enters the country, it's Singapore and pillar is sixth. I think the system should search the official legal source, retrieve the relevant laws or regulations, and extract from the PDF or HTML source and perform OCR if the document is scanned, identified, and mapped to the RTTI indicator and finally produce CSV and JSON output file with verifiable citation.

I think the important point is that the system should work for the text, scan, and PDF file. Another important requirement is the Quick Start Read Me. It should clearly include the project name, the short description, instruction, command to run, and extract output file, pin the version of the audio and libraries, and for that instruction.

Next slide is the summary chart timeline. That's the folder that matters. I think Dr. Wichada will explain already. Next slide, please. This is our recommended structure for your output file. Start with the RDTII in the top right. Designing your output for your person to use it will set your team apart because our chart work time is split into the primary format, and the primary format is CSV and the supplementary one is JSON.

Next slide, please.

I think the previous slide was the theory. This is like given an example what a strong output goal should look like, the CSV side and the JSON side. I think you will study more after this. Next slide, please.

This slide brings everything together by showing the summary chart. It will be reviewed back into different ways about the policy chart. Maybe read the law and test the chart, maybe read the code. I think here is all of my presentation. Next, I will move my presentation to Dr. Ratopoom to explain more about what support you get and now the portal of our electron.

Thank you, Dr. Tanavit. Next slide, please. This is about what support you get. I will cover the no-reporter also. This one, what support you get? We prepared the sample kit, the Q&A portal, the workshop, the resource library, and the summary kit. We have five to ten legal documents from one to two countries. For the workshops, we prepare you not only for the RDTII, but both the engineering and AI technical experts. From the four and five, and 11, 12, and 15, June, we will wrap up again. Q&A portal, I will show you here and the resource library.

Next slide, please.

This one is about the knowledge portal. This is the portal 7 access ready for you today to ADTII guys. The public one and the internal collection guide, there are one database with the sample data for Australia, Singapore, and Malaysia. The 2D site can last template. That is take home assignment to the 4th of June. You have assignment to submit and you have a take home exam, something like that. You just remind that the submit of the homework is due within the 4th of June. The output template, pitch deck format, and readme template, and recording from this and every workshop, after each session.

Okay, the final slide. Okay, this is about the details of the knowledge portal contents. We prepare and we will be challenging you by the Google dive today. The resource library, you will get the RTDII, and templates, and sample government portal pillar, number 6, and then 7. This is the mandatory issues. So the sample kit, and also the take home assignment. The dividend is the 4th of June, peace demand. And finally is the workshop series recording presentation, including today.

Okay, finally, one crossing task, you are no longer being scored on a plan. You are being scored on a working engine. We have 6 weeks after this, 2 RTDII pillars mandatory, 5 diviv variables on the 20th of July is very important. The live demo on the 3rd of August, that is the whole job of this level.

Okay, if you have a question, bring the questions, you do not answer to get to the Q&A session here in a few minutes. But after tonight, the portal is open and the view windows has started. And the last thing, ask KMITL, you survived a rigorous selection from 129 application, and you have a deceased consideration again.

Okay, and welcome you to the round one of hackathon. Thank you. I will give the state back to the Nikita.

Thank you so much to Dr. Witada, Dr. Ratapoom and Dr. Tanavit for the very informative presentation. I hope this has given our teams a better idea about the expectations from the hackathon competition.

RDTII Framework, Scope, and Legal Research Methodology
------------------------------------------------------

If our teams have any questions, please put them in the Q&A box and we will be monitoring the box and try to answer your questions as we go along as well. Next, for the next session, I would like to welcome Juntong Ho to provide an introduction to the Regional Digital Trade Regulatory Index, or RDTII for short. I'm sure you have heard this name many times, and she will explain what the index is about to you. Juntong is a legal researcher contributing to the RDTII initiative and specializes in connecting and analyzing regulatory data on digital trade across Asia and the Pacific. She supports major outputs such as digital trade regulatory reports, subregional reviews and economic profiles by maintaining databases, validating data and translating complex legal frameworks into policy insights.

Thank you, Juntong, for being here today. She's also supporting us on Zoom. You have the floor for the next 30 minutes. I think you might be on mute if you're saying anything.

Okay, can you hear me now? Yes. Yes, and thank you, and I'll open my slide then. We can't see your slides yet. Yes, I'm opening now. Okay, perfect.

You're sitting now. Yes, thank you very much, and thank you for joining the session, everyone. My name is Juntong, and I am a legal researcher in ESCA on digital trade, and I am also a RDTII data collector. So today I'll just introduce you what is RDTII. So here, let's start with an agenda for this session. So today I will walk you through what is RDTII, and we will organize this discussion around three main points. So the first one is what is its scope, including the 12 policy areas and also three clusters. So we will explore the geographical coverage, where I will also briefly touch upon the value of RDTII. And the third is how is the data collected, which is essentially relevant for many of you joining the session today.

To further declare, we will also go into several practical questions, such as the research boundary of RDTII, including the question you may ask yourself, what are the ICT goods and the data services, and what kind of services we focus on, and what the horizontal and vertical measures mean, and also the scoring criteria. So finally, I will also briefly introduce the online portal and the related knowledge products of RDTII.

So first, let's start with the most basic question, what is RDTII? So RDTII has been introduced, the original digital trade integration index is an index they use to measure the degree of regional digital trade integration. And most specifically, it looks at the openness of the regulatory environment for digital trade, and to which extent the regulatory approaches are aligned across the economies. So one point I really want to emphasize here is that RDTII is not trying to say whether an economy's policy is good or bad. What it is we're trying to capture is whether the digital trade regulations create the policy regulatory complexity. And in many cases, these complexities go beyond the traditional trade barriers, for example, the tariffs.

And let's give you an example. So imagine two economies that both allow cloud service providers to operate, but one economy requires data to be stored locally, while the other allows the data to move freely across the borders. So in those two situations, the cost of entering the market, setting up the restructure and managing the legal risks can be very different. So that's the kind of institutional friction RDTII is trying to make visible in a more systematic way. So at the same time, I also want to stress that this framework does not try to capture the full range of social, economic, security and environmental concerns that may matter in the regulatory forms. It has a clear analytical boundary. So in terms of RDTII's structure, RDTII 2.1 includes 12 policy areas, which we call them as pillars.

You already heard about that. And they are broken down into 69 policy indicators, and they are grouped into three clusters. And in the score wise, the RDTII scoring range is from zero to one, but the score is not intended to make a value judgment, but it is trying to show the extent of regulation. So that we can see the differences, we can identify the friction and also think about the possible path for coordination and cooperation.

Now, we have the basic idea of RDTII. The next we are looking at the scope of the framework. So what policy areas it actually covers. So RDTII 2.1 includes 12 pillars, and they are grouped into three clusters. The traditional policy measures, which is the yellow frames you can see on the right side, and other domestic policies is the blue parts. And the digital governance measures, the pink parts in the left side. So why are they grouped in this way? It is because the digital trade is not shipped only by policies that are obviously digital. A business engaged in cross-border digital trade may be affected by many different types of rules. For example, the rules like are there the tariffs on imported ICT equipment?

Can a service provider enter the market? And are there foreign equity caps? Can data move across borders? So these questions come from different parts of the regulatory system, but all of them will affect the cost and the feasibility of digital trade. So these three clusters help us bring those different regulatory factors together in a more structured way. To put it simply, you can think of those three clusters like this. The first one looks at whether the goods and services can move across borders. And the second one looks at whether firms can enter and compete in the market. And the third one looks at how digital activities themselves are governed.

Now let's start with the first cluster, which is traditional policy measures. So these are the policies that affects the cost and ease of moving hardware, software and related service across borders. So in other words, this cluster looks at what happened at the border and in the technical entry process. So this cluster includes policy areas like tariffs and trade defense measures, non-technical non-tariff measures, as well as the technical standards and conformity assessment procedures. So I will not walk you through the indicators one by one because of time limitation. But in overall, this cluster is asking a very basic but important question. Like when goods and services related to digital trade move across borders, how smooth or how burdensome is that process?

Now the second cluster is other domestic policies. So unlike the first one, those measures do not necessarily arise at the border. Instead, they show whether the firms can enter a market, can operate there and compete on the level playing field. So this cluster mainly includes rules on public procurement, foreign direct investment, intellectual property rights and telecom regulations and competitions. So the second cluster is really about the question that once a firm enters the market, does it face a relatively open and fair regulatory environment?

Now, this is the third cluster. It's digital governance policies. So if the first two clusters focus more on cross border movement and market access, this one focuses more on how digital activities themselves are governed. To put it simply, these are the policies that shape the digital trade, e-commerce and also digital firms. So this cluster is especially relevant for the hackathon because many of the AI solutions tasks around the identification and instruction as mentioned before will focus on exactly this kind of digital governance measures. So here I will give you more details on pillar six and seven because they are the mandatory pillars. Pillar six is looking at the cross border data policies, which looks at the rules on cross border data flow, including data localization requirements and data transfers.

And this is one of the most central issues in digital trade today because so many services like cloud computing, online collaborating, e-commerce and also digital marketing, they all depend on the data moving in real time across borders. And this pillar seven is domestic data policy, domestic data protection and privacy. This looks at personal data production, the privacy rules, the cybersecurity rules and also rules governing if government has access to personal data. So in overall, this part of the framework is really asking once digital services are actually operating online, how do the regulations shape the boundaries of the activities?

Now, let's look into the geographical coverage. So as of now, the ASCAP database tracks 48 economies, including ASCAP members and associate members in this region. And the list of coverage has grown over time. And the point that is worth emphasizing because the digital trade policy research often fits a basic challenge. The legal systems differ widely across economies and so do the level of development. If we only look at a handful of major economies, we will miss the wider original picture. And one of the key value of the IDPI is issue-specific database is that it aims to build a broader and more comparable policy map across the region.

Now, before we move to the manual data collection process, let's take a quick look at the current process for facilitating IDPI database. Before the database was shipped, we have five steps. Step one is the desk research. This is where the researchers identify and collect relevant legal and policy sources and read the text and extract the information needed for the database. Then the findings will be reviewed internally to check the consistency and accuracy by the new experts and senior researchers. And afterwards, the information will be shared for verification with the focal points from the economies. And once the information has been reviewed and verified, it goes to the calculating framework of this index. And then lastly, we will publish the data and then prepare the relevant knowledge products.

So, this hackathon solution will entirely focus on the first step, the desk research. This step, desk research, is important because it lays the foundation for the whole database. So it includes a fairly detailed process of legal and policy research. Now, let's break the step one desk research process down in a bit more detail. So, the whole manual data collection process starts with the gain familiarity with both ITI and also the economies' regulatory environment. Then the researchers need to conduct the regulatory research to identify the relevant laws and the regulations and read the text and decide whether this provision falls within the scope of a particular indicator. And also, you need to extract the relevant information and then convert that into the structured data for the database.

So, in this whole process, what AI can help facilitate would be, as mentioned before, the source identification and also the structured instruction. So, regarding the source identification, which is called as zone one, it is to find the official laws, the ministerial regulations, government decisions or the court cases that are relevant to a specific pillar or indicator. This can be challenging because the official databases differ widely across economies in terms of structure, naming, updating practice and of course language. Then about the structured instruction, we call it zone two here. Even after finding the source, the researcher needs to extract information. So, we need to extract original legal texts in the law and then interpret the law, why it is relevant to this indicator.

And the last step in the RDTII research is to insert the finding into the database in a standardized format, including the legal text, the provision citation and also the interpretation of the law and other information. So, overall, the RDTII data collection is for researching from understanding the institutional background to identify sources, to extracting structured legal information and finally entering this into the database.

Now, so before researching any economy, the researchers need to become familiar with the RDTII itself. So, in other words, they need to understand clearly what the framework includes, what it excludes and how it is applied in practice. So, the main point here is that the RDTII does not include every digital policy that a research happens to find, and it follows a clear boundary logic of inclusion and exclusion. And the next few slides, I will explain this in more detail.

Now, I'm introduce the main boundaries of policy coverage. So, if researchers are going to work with RDTII data, they first need to be clear about several basic but important questions. The questions are like, does the measure affects ICT products or digital services? Is it an official enforce measure? Does it come from an official sources? Also, is it a horizontal rule or a sectoral specific one? And what score shall I give to this measure? So, if those boundaries are not clear at the start, then later on the data will just end up with the inconsistent treatment, missing measures and also maybe incorrect entries.

Now, let me explain what kind of the product and the services idea actually covers. Firstly, let me start with the coverage of digital trade. So, the digital trade has two main sides. One is the digitally ordered trade, which is basically the international e-commerce. For example, someone buys something from online market or website. And the other is the digitally delivered trade, which means the services deliver remotely over computer network. For example, cloud computing, online banking, etc. And the ICT equipment and ICT services are also important because they have to enable the whole process. The things like servers, telecom networks and computers make the digital trade possible. So, in this context, RDTII 2.1 looks at policies related to ICT products, digital products and digital services.

The ICT products are goods like smartphones, computers and semiconductors. The framework follows the WTO information technology agreement first and its extension, as well as the proposed ITA 3Ds, which also includes newer ICT products like drones and robots. But here, the raw materials such as rare earth are not included. And the digital products, in short, here are intangible items delivered digitally, such as software, e-book, online courses, etc. And the digital services are the services delivered through digital means, for example, online banking and cloud computing. So finally, the database does not cover the non-commercial services. For example, the public education and heritage services will not include in RDTII database. And also, it does not cover the rules that apply only to offline versions, such as the rules affecting the only offline advertisements. We will not include them either.

Now, this is one of the most operational rules because it sets out the three key principles. Non-preferential measures, enforced measures and official sources. Firstly, RDTII mainly focuses on the domestic regulations and certain international frameworks. In general, it does not include provisions on the preferential trade agreements. The reason for this is comparability. If all kinds of free trade agreements or digital economic agreements were included, it would be much harder to maintain a consistent basis for comparison across economies. So the framework focuses mainly on rules that apply more generally, rather than the commitments that only apply to selected partners.

Secondly, the database includes only measures that are already enforced. The draft laws pending proposals or the repealed laws are not included in the database. This is important because in practice, the researchers often come across measures that are heavily discussed in the media, but have not yet been formally adopted. For those, we will not include in our database. So RDTII takes a cautious approach here to maintain the accuracy and comparability.

Thirdly, RDTII is based primarily on official sources, including laws, regulations, government decisions and also case law. The news reports, press release, legal reviews and other secondary materials are not included. They are not used as the main legal basis in a database. Although they may be helpful to gather researchers to find the primary law, but they are not the primary source where we treat it here. However, here there are some exceptions I have to mention. So some indicators that they focus on enforcement and practice, such as indicator 3.4 about investment screening cases, 5.3 about the government shareholding in telecom communication operators and 9.1 on the commercial web content blog and filtering. For those indicators, they draw on actual cases from what we call secondary sources, like the press release from the media.

But in those cases, researchers still need to cite the official legal basis as well, and also describe the facts and the practice in a nutshell tone. Other indicators rely on established third-party databases, like the WIT database for tariff calculation on the indicator 1.1 and 1.2, the VDAM database for internet shutdown on 9.2, and certain third-party sources for participation in international or regional instruments. Under the indicators like 1.3, 2.4, and all those indicators with the red structs through. So you can see the red structs through here. So those are the indicators we refer as the non-regulatory indicators. For all of them, you do not need to follow the usual steps to collect data. Instead, you can directly utilize the external information. So for them, there is no need to develop the AI tools to extract information. You can skip those, especially indicator 6.5.

I highlight it here, as it is one of the indicators of the mandatory pillar 6. So for 6.5, you can skip this indicator. And I know, as Dr. Witada mentioned, if you want to get extra bonus, not only the mandatory pillars, pillars 6 and 7, you need to build AI solution. If you want to get extra bonus, you can apply this to other pillars. So if you choose the pillars 3, pillar 5, pillar 9, you may need to pay attention to indicator 3.4, 5.3, and 9.1 here. Because not only they look at the primary legal official legal sources, they also look at what we call secondary sources like the media and the press release, and also the legal reviews.

And these non-regulatory indicators in the knowledge portal, we mentioned before, we have a list of those indicators. And we also provide examples of how the researchers obtain this information. You may find the list in the knowledge portal later. So overall, the key principle is that RDTII data must be verifiable based on the measures that are enforced and also grounded in reliable official sources, but with only a few clear defined exceptions, of course. And now, let me explain how researchers avoid missing important rules like by looking at the vertical coverage and the horizontal coverage. For the vertical coverage, this means looking across all levels of legal hierarchy. So from the overarching laws such as acts, statutes, codes, down to decrees, implementing regulations, government decisions, and also industrial technical standards.

This matters because in many economies, the broader principle appears in a higher level law, while the practical details that actually affect firms appear in lower level regulations. So if a researcher looks at only the main law and ignore the implementing rules, they may incorrectly conclude that there's no restriction or that the rule is too vague to matter. And the horizontal coverage here means looking at both broad laws that apply across sectors and also sector specific regulations. For example, general laws such as Public Procurement Act or a Foreign Business Act may be relevant, but also the sector specific rules, let's say, Telecommunication Act, Computer Service Act or e-commerce laws, they are also important. I highlight this because many measures relevant to digital trade are not written in a single law called digital trade law. They are scattered across the investment law, public procurement law, telecommunication law, like cybersecurity law or payment rules and more.

So please be noted that each indicator has its own specific scope and exceptions. For example, under pillar 6 on cross-border data policies, the measures that apply only to government data should not be scored. So the key message here is that the researchers need to look both deeply across legal hierarchy and widely across legal fields, while also checking the scope and exceptions of the specific indicator in RDTII Guide 2.1. We also provide that in the knowledge portal and you may also scan the QR with the link here to find a guide.

Now, let me explain to you the score logic. So RDTII scores run from 0 to 1. A score of 0 reflects the relatively low compliance costs, while a score above 0 reflects some degree of higher compliance costs. And one important clarification is that a score of 0 does not mean there is nothing there. It may simply mean that there is no specific restriction measures captured by the indicator or that only general rules exist and they don't create substantial compliance costs. And a score above 0 usually reflects one of the several situations. The first one is that the measures may create a different treatment between the domestic and the foreign providers of ICT goods and owner services.

Even though they are in the same or similar situation, they may be treated differently. And secondly, the measure may pursue a non-economic objective but still end up blocking or discouraging both foreign and local firms from participating in digital trade. And thirdly, an economy may fail to adopt the international commitments like the international model law to harmonize the regulatory fragmentation. So the main point here is that RDTII's scoring reflects the extent of regulatory requirements and the compliance costs may create, but again, it's not judging whether the policy objective itself is right or wrong.

Now, much of this may sound very conceptual, but RDTII is not just a framework in a report. It has also been turned into a practical online portal that people can use directly. So through the portal, you can access and compare the digital trade regulatory data. It provides access to the RDTII 2.1 dashboard on the left side and the database on the right side in the screen. Also, the partner indices, which currently include the data for more than 130 economies in Asia-Pacific, Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean. And also, RDTII has been used in a number of practical outputs, including the digital trade regulatory reviews, the latest regional and sub-regional reviews up to 2025, as well as the economy profiles that describe the policy landscape of each of the 48 economies.

It has also supported more concrete policy tools, such as the national action plans in countries like Pakistan, Philippines, Pakistan, and Mongolia.

Now, that's my today's session. So for next session, I will move from the general principles into the actual practice of manual legal research. So I will walk you through how do the RDTII researchers analyze, identify, extract, classify, and score the legal provisions in practice, and what kind of the challenges and difficulties they have been encountered, and how those difficulties are addressed. And thank you for your attention, and I hope this can be helpful. So I'm open to any questions. And back to you, Nikita.

Thank you, Juntung, for your presentation. This was very interesting. You really summarized RDTII really well for our teams over here.

AI Tool Design Workshop and Automation Workflow
-----------------------------------------------

I think, like Juntung said, RDTII is a key foundation of this Hackathon Challenge. So if you have any questions beyond what has already been covered, please put them in the Q&A box, or we can continue the conversation as we go along. So we have 30 minutes remaining for the rest of the session. We are running late. For the next 30 minutes, I will be presenting, I will be doing my presentation. So let me just share my screen.

Is my screen visible?

Yes, we can see this. I see this. Okay. Sorry. Just going to share again. I hope it is visible now, the full screen.

Okay. Okay. So for the next 30 minutes, I will be walking you through how you can design your AI tool. As we have seen so far, we have understood what the scope of the competition is, what is required of you during the competition. And now we will see how I will try to help you on how you can design your tool based on the RDTII structure and some of our experiences that we have seen in our own automation experiments. I also work in the RDTII team, and I have also worked on automating the RDTII data collection process, and I would like to share my experience with you.

So this session, I will separated into five parts. First, I will go deeper into how the human researcher collects data. Some of this has already been covered by Juntom, but I want to just reiterate so that you understand what the automation workflow must look like, and what the output from your automation must look like created by your tool itself. Then we will go through the issues that are encountered with automation from our experience, and then we will work through some work examples of the tool design canvas. And I saw a question in the Q&A about what the fourth June assignment is, and I will be briefing you about that assignment as well. So to start with, the human data collection process can be broken down into these key steps. First thing the human human researcher needs to do is read and understand the RDTII framework.

This includes the guide, and also understand the implicit legal rules that are known to lawyers or legal researchers, basically. Then, based on a particular pillar or indicator, they can go and search official databases and government websites or other legal sources or primary sources of information. After they go through this website or the legal database, they will shortlist documents to examine further. This could include-- And I'll just start with Nikita. Are you sure we are scoring? Because we've now seen the slides. Oh, okay.

Hold on. Let me just try sharing again. Okay. Okay. Can you see them now? Nope. Oh, yes. Okay. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So sorry. I didn't realize I was not sharing my screen before. But this is the process that we are looking at right now. And I was on the shortlisting part of it. So after the legal researcher has understood the RDTII framework, they will search database and then shortlist documents to examine them further. After the documents have been shortlisted, they will read inside the documents to identify the relevant sections to the RDTII indicator that has been selected. After that, based on the RDTII scoring criteria, a score is assigned after manual verification by another team member.

Below this, you can see that how it looks for a Singapore database. I have tried to show you how, for example, the researcher will look at the Personal Data Protection Act, go into the act, and over here, you can see that in this section 26, subsection 1, this particular paragraph was identified as relevant to indicator 6.4, which looks as conditional flow regime.

Now, now that we have established that the human data collection workflow is done manually, I want to show you how it looks and how we store the data right now. It is stored in an Excel file. We store all our data in Excel file, and this is the data set that you're going to receive, which is going to be a key resource for training your tool and cross-checking its results. To familiarize yourself with this database, let me just walk you through what the different data fields are. The first two columns are simple. They are just the indices, that is the bigger ID and indicator ID that the entry is assigned to. The third column called raw score is the RDTII score. This is given, like I said, using the RDTII scoring criteria and that something has been covered. This has also been covered by Joon Thong.

The fourth column onwards is of most interest to us. The fourth column tells you the name of the act, law or regulation or the official legal law that is relevant to this entry. The coverage column talks about the sectoral coverage. Does this law affect all sectors and all industries, or does it only affect a certain sector or industry? The impact or comments on acts or practices column is an explanation given by the researcher as to why they think this identified text and within this text, this provision or section or sub-article is relating to the RDTII indicator. And what impact it essentially has on businesses engaging in digital trade, cross-border digital trade. The second last column timeframe talks about since when has the law been active and last amendments to the law.

And this is also very important because as has been mentioned before, we only look at active laws and regulations and not the ones that have been removed. And the last column gives you the URL that is the link to the document itself. Now, you must have realized by now that this process is extremely manual, it's very intensive. So far, all the collection has been done by human beings and researchers. And every update takes 10 researchers more than one to four weeks depending for every country, depending on how complicated the country is. And we have to also survey existing countries, which has 48 and increase our data set to cover more countries. So far, we have been able to identify 2600 regulations manually in our RDTII data collection process.

So now if you put this workflow or restructure it into an automation tool, the end-to-end automation workflow looks something like this. The search and shortlist process of a human researcher will go into zone one, which is identification. The retrieval process, which is where the legal researcher reads the document and understands it and then pulls out the provision that is relevant to the RDTII indicator, will go into zone two, which is extraction. And then the final would be scoring, which also you would get bonus points for if you are able to include RDTII scoring criteria and automate the scoring process as well. Throughout all of this, a human review for validity checks is included and also a learning stage.

The stage where the human researcher had to read the documents, understand RDTII methodology would all be a continuous process in your tool as well. One thing I would really point out over here for importance of highlight is the implicit rules. There are certain unwritten rules that are implicit to human beings that we understand, but need to be taught and spoon-fed to automated workflows.

Now, just to even zoom into this automated workflow, let's look at it from the perspective of inputs and outputs. In this case, your processing in the middle is done by your AI tool. What will you give your tool? You will give it the RDTII knowledge base. This would include the existing database, which looks like the Excel I showed you before. The URLs are the links of the official sources, especially if the country has already been surveyed by us before. You can give it the internal guide, which explains the implicit rules. And finally, the RDTII guide, which is a complete methodological review of the RDTII framework. Once you feed all this information into your tool or you train your tool based on this information, your tool needs to do one of two things or both things.

You can do zone one, zone two, or both of them. Zone one is identify the legal and regulatory documents, and zone two is extract legal text. Now, let's look at an example over here. This is the same example as I showed before. This is from the Personal Data Protection Act from Singapore. This Section 26, subsection one talks about transfer of personal data outside of Singapore. It says that an organization must not transfer any personal data to a country or territory outside Singapore, except with some exceptions.

Now, what would your output look like? Well, the way it would look like is up to you. We don't have any limitations on your user interface or the way you design your tool, but there need to be certain fields that are required in your output. I believe Dr. Vitadwali talked about this before, but let me reiterate. The first thing your tool needs to definitely give us is the provision text. What was the text that was identified as relevant in the rule? Because think about your final user. They're going to be lawyers. They care about which exact text governs this particular RDTII indicator. Then the second field we want is the name of the law. The third and the fourth field are the pillar and the indicator it has been identified as relevant to.

Then, if possible, this is optional, the rationale. Why did your tool choose this provision text as the most relevant one? Then coverage, whether sectoral or horizontal. In this example, it is horizontal because it applies to personal data across all sectors. Then the timeframe and the last amendment of the law that was selected. More importantly, like I said, the address, which exact article, which sub-article, which provision was identified as relevant. In this case, it would be Article 26, Sub-Article 1. The URL, which is the link to the law. If your tool also gives confidence, relevance, or a discovery tag and a flag for review.

Now, now that we have talked about automating, let's have a poll. I am going to put out a poll for you stating, asking you, let me just put this away, asking you in your view, what are the main challenges in automating RDTII data collection? Is it incorrect legal citations? Is it missing acts and regulations? Misinterpretation of legal text? Incorrect response to co-legal question of the indicator or all of the above. I am going to give you like 30 seconds to vote on this page.

Okay. So, let's see if all of you were correct. The answer is quite obvious. It is all of the above and then even some more. From our experience, some of the problems we have encountered are over here. They range from the ones that I stated before to some of the ones that you must have seen before. And you were all right. 70% of you did vote all of the above. There was a fair number of votes for missing acts and regulations and incorrect response to co-legal questions. And I would say that's a fair assumption because sometimes, especially LLM models also misunderstand the RDTII framework. So, like I said, these are the issues, but there are some more.

Depending on the tool, technology or method you use, obviously the issues you encounter can vary. But some of the ones we have encountered are listed over here. Let me walk you through the second poll, an example of the issue that we have encountered over here. In this case, this tool of ours, this was extracted using LLM models, Singapore Pillar 6 Indicator 6.1, which is concerned with bank and local processing requirements. The output was good. You can see the URL. It pulled the Back Banking Act Section 47 as the relevant legal text. And it also gave it a pretty high relevant score of 0.7. The text it pulled as relevant is as stated. Except as expressly provided in the Act, no person who is or has been an officer of the bank, shall disclose any customer information to any other person.

Bank customer information is to be kept confidential and must not be divulged to any unauthorized party. It also gave it a relevance note. It did basically say that this strict confidentiality rule is basically a local handling requirement to financial customer data. I am telling you that this output is incorrect. Please go ahead and vote why you think it is incorrect. There are three options for you. Misinterpretation of law, broken or incorrect URLs, and incorrect legal citation. I am going to give you another 30 seconds to cast your vote, please.

I see the highest number of votes for misinterpretation of law, which is 53%.

Okay. I see the majority of you have voted for misinterpretation of the law, which is the correct answer. In this particular case, the Banking Act is a binding domestic law and it seems relevant. But the cited provision itself has nothing to do with the question that the indicator is asking. The indicator is asking first of all about cross-border transfers of data, whether there is a ban or local processing requirement as well. This particular provision is only talking about confidentiality. But it doesn't say that this data needs to be stored locally or cannot be transferred cross-border. So when you look really closely at what this output was from automated tool, this was a misinterpretation of the law.

So now that we have understood or gotten a small look into what could go wrong in what could be the issues with automations, now let's look at how you would design your tool. I would advise that this is a canvas that you should use. This canvas will allow you to design your tool and understand different aspects that your tool must fulfill. There are five categories I would say that you should focus on.

First of all is the zone. Which IDTI zone is the tool targeting? It could be either zone one that it only will do this extraction, the searching of the laws, or zone two, which will do retrieval within the document or both. Maybe your tool can also do both of them together or in a workflow. The second thing that you would want to look at is the inputs. How are you providing it the data? What is the source of the data? What is the format? What language are you giving it the inputs in? The third thing is outputs. What is the exact structure that the tool produces? As I said before, we do not have any specific requirement for your final UI or design, but there are certain fields that must be outputted by your tool.

The fourth one is evaluation. How would you evaluate that your tool has done a good job? What are the metrics of evaluation? How are you testing them? Where does the human in-loop workflow set in if you're using LLM or any other sort of models? You need to establish a unique evaluation structure based on the technologies you used or the workflow you set. The final thing you need to look at is the risk. What are the risks associated with your output?

Are there any hallucinations if you're using LLM models? Are there any biases? Is your tool missing provisions? All of these need to be evaluated before you start building it. Let me walk you through a work example of what this canvas will look like with real-life examples from our experiments. In this case, our tool was doing Zone 1, which is identification of law. We gave it the Malaysia description of Pillar 2, which is related to public procurement in the RGTI framework, and we gave it information over the Malaysia legal database. In this output, as you can see, it web-scrapped Malaysia law repository for Pillar 2, and it did the combination of semantic analysis and keyword matching, came up with these top five acts as something that we should look at.

This was the output, what it looked like. Ignore the many large numbers. It's just the score, but you can see that it has given quite a high score of relevance to it. It has recorded PDF, URL, and it has given the full title of the law. Because this is not Zone 2, we are not looking inside the document. We are filtering through the different laws that are present. Then we did an evaluation using a human spot check. That means just a human researcher is looking at the results and trying to see if they're relevant, and enter annotator agreement. That means we're checking this output against our existing database. As you can see, it looks pretty good, but there are some risks associated with this particular type of method.

Because it was dependent on keywords, it's very mechanical in a way. You can see that there is a very irrelevant act that was pushed to the top, which is the State Water Supply Fund Act of 1980, the second entry in this. It is completely irrelevant to public procurement, because it probably had the words financial and accounting. The keyword was identified and it got pushed on the top. That was the risk from this particular type of example. The second example is also from Zone 1 identification, but with a different method. In this one, we used an LLM model to extract information for pillar 4, which is relevant to intellectual property rights, specifically indicator 4.2, which talks about patent enforcement issues.

Are there any issues relating to enforcing patent law, basically? This is a real result we got from our trials with LLM. Like you can see, the UI is very different, but most of them have gotten the fields that are relevant for us. You can see the title, you can see the date, you can see which section. It says section 69 of part 15 is relevant. We checked all of this again by checking it ourselves and comparing it with our existing database, which is our evaluation. But there is a risk, because it's a LLM model, which we have found in our experiments as well. There is some inaccuracies in the field accuracy in this case. You can see, when we checked this output and we checked for that law online, we checked the Patents Act 1994.

In this output, you can see that the last amended date is in 31st December 2021, but in reality, it was 9th March 2025. So even though the rest of the output is correct, in this case, the effective date was wrong. And Singapore website also has some other issues like anti-bot measures, which are also some risks to this particular type of automation. And my final example is for Zone 2, which is the extraction process.

Now we are inside the document looking at the text itself. In this case, I have pulled up examples from the Thailand's Personal Data Protection Act and Section 28. For example, I put this text into my tool along with all the RDTII knowledge base. The output in this case looks like a JSON record. It gives me the pillar tag, the indicator tag. What is the obligation over here? It says that no cross-border data transfer should happen unless the receiver has adequate data protection standards, whether it's binding, what is the source of this, the URL, the coverage, and the timeframe. Looks good. It is largely accurate as well. And again, we check this by ourselves, compared it with our existing database.

And in this case, there could be a possibility of a risk of a misinterpretation of law. Additionally, the JSON record, while it looks good for a technical person, you have to remember that your final user is a lawyer or a non-technical person. And in this case, your user interface would be necessary, and there's a risk associated with misinterpretation from the user side as well. And finally, a very small point is Thailand uses, the year is 2562 for this law, which is a Buddhist calendar-based counting. And so it is possible that whatever tool you use might misinterpret it and not realize that it is actually 2019 in our global calendar. So those are some risks associated with this kind of extraction.

Now, finally, before I finish, I have some take-home assignments for you to complete before the 4th of June. Jun Tong and I will also be giving you another workshop, which will be more hands-on on the 5th of June, and hopefully these take-home assignments will prepare you for that. So your first assignment is very similar to what I showed you before, which is why is this an incorrect output from automation tool? As a reminder, this other list of issues that can happen, this is not exhaustive, but at least the correct answer for this particular example is within this list. So this is your first assignment. The second assignment is to actually draw up your tool design canvas.

I have created a template for you, which I will quickly show you in the next slide, but basically choose one example from Zone 1 or Zone 2 and provide details of up to two alternative tool design concepts. I have given you an example. If you want to make your own example, please go ahead, but I want details of up to two design concepts. You can give one if you're comfortable and confident with it, but the more design concepts you give to us, or like show me, I can give you feedback on what could go wrong, what could go right. Fill all five sections of the tool design canvas, as I showed you before in the worked examples, and basically walk your design through these different sections, like how will the output look, how will the input look, what's the evaluation risks and all of that.

And then you can fill the canvas and send it to me before our 5th June workshop. This is what the canvas PDF looks like. It is pretty straightforward. You recognize the sections. These are the examples. And that's it. Thank you all. I am really looking forward to your tool design canvases. If you guys, if anybody has any questions, please feel free to email me or email the Hackathon team as required. Thank you.

Okay. So I see that we have five minutes left to our allotted team. Do we think that we have time for a Q&A session? Yes. I think if anyone has burning questions, we could take a few questions. Yes, sure. I am going to allow the participants to raise their hands

Q&A and Closing
---------------

and turn on their mics and cameras and ask, introduce yourself and ask your questions yourself, because it seems like we have answered all the questions in the Q&A box. So if anybody has any questions, please raise your hand and let me know.

It doesn't seem like we have any questions. Oh, okay. There is one hand that's been raised. Yes, Ronit, you can ask your question. Please turn on your camera and your mic, please.

Hello. I am turning the camera.

Yes, you can go ahead and ask your question, please. Basically, this is Ronit. Currently, I am a fourth-year college parent doing mathematics and computing. My question is basically that in the first stage, when we have to scrape out the data or some legal docs from the websites, I just have one question that in some of the websites, there are tools which prevent bots to access the website. So do we need to work around for those things or is there any other thing we have to do? Like passing Cloudflare bot protection or something.

Okay, can you summarize your question? What exactly is your question in this case? Basically, the question is that while searching for the docs, some of the government websites or some other websites have bot protection. Like they don't allow bots to enter the website. But the thing is, since we are making automation, obviously, bots will go and search the things. So my question is that do we need to make some work around to pass those bot protection firewalls in the website?

Okay, so basically, your question is that you are anticipating a risk that there will be anti-crawling or bot mechanisms on certain websites. So do you have to develop a work around that? Do you have to develop a solution around that in your tool? Yeah, exactly. Koonvitada answered this question if she wants to. The short answer is yes. And that reflects how technical excellence you've been able to cope. Yeah, it is a very big risk in, like I said, it's one of the risks of your tool and it is one of the things that happens on the Singapore website as far as we have seen. So if your tool can go around that, then I guess she will give you more points.

Yeah. Okay. I hope that answers your question, Rohit. Are there any other questions? Yeah, that is fine. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.

I don't see any more questions, so I guess I can... Can I ask a question? Yes, please. I see Zim, please ask a question. You can see how many teams participated in the initial stage.

You want to know how many teams had registered for the hackathon? Yes. Ah, okay. So initially, we had 129 teams that had registered to the hackathon and 44, which includes your team, were shortlisted. Okay, thank you. I saw questions about access to Google Drive a couple of times. So can you reiterate this? Yes. So about the Google Drive, we have purposefully kept the access limited to just the teams because after this will be another shortlisting, right? So it is very normal for you to see that you don't have access to the Google Drive. Please request access or send us a message, an email. In one, two days, you still don't have access to the Google Drive. But otherwise, send us a request to access and our admin will provide it. Yeah.

I see one question in the Q&A. Would judges value a solution that solves a highly specialized regulatory pain point or a broader platform with wider but lighter functionality?

The question is a little broad, right? Because when you say special, like pain points, it also depends on which pain point you are covering in the solutions and how good you cover it. But in general, we value solving pain points more than a general tool. Okay.

Hi. Can I ask a question? Yes, please go ahead. Yeah, this is Moshfa. We are participating from the Maldives. So my question is in the discovery phase, is it expected for the tool to discover legal documents from the web automatically or will the users be pointing, okay, these are the websites that needs to be scanned and scraped and analyzed? Is that the expectation or should it be completely automatic and dynamic?

Okay. Can you make your question concise and maybe like reframe it a little bit? Okay. So for example, if you take one country, let's say Singapore. So if you want to analyze the legal documents related to this for Singapore, are you going to tell the application, this is the website that needs to be scanned or is it expected for the application to automatically discover the websites related to Singapore? Okay. So your question is whether you can give your tool the Singapore database, the website that it needs to look at or is the tool expected to find the website itself? Yes, exactly. Okay. I think I can ask Koonvitara to answer this question if that is okay or I can also answer it, but yes, please go ahead.

There will be the data sets that we've given to you, right, where your tool will detect the most often found scope of the website. However, that sample data set is assembled. So it means when you develop your full tools, your discovery of things that we have never discovered before would be valuable. If you've been able to pin points, identify additional source, so that means new evidence has been discovered, so you will be getting higher scores. If you limit that to the source that we already identified, your value of tool quality will be lower. But to make you start before going to the next step, we provide you the sample sets where you can teach your tools to understand the scope, the characteristic of data source that you should be looking at. Yes, thank you. Yes, basically, I guess it's a combination of both, right, where you will be getting the data that we already have and you can use those URLs to train your tool, but maybe your tool might also make other discoveries without the URLs we have

given us and that would also be quite valuable to our workflow as well. So I hope that answers your question. Yeah. Excuse me, can I ask the question? Yes, please go ahead. Will the winners who are flying to Bangkok, will be giving a presentation or will there just be an award ceremony there? I would invite the colleague from KMITL to answer this question.

Okay, actually, you have to go to the final pitch again in Bangkok, not only get the reward here. Okay. The last five teams will invite to join the final pitch in Bangkok in around October. Okay. Okay, thank you. I see a fair bit of questions about the knowledge portal again, actually. So about the URL to the knowledge portal and access to it, the admin team is working on giving all the team access. Right now, we will only give access to one member of the team and eventually expand the access to the whole team. You will receive an email after this session as well, giving you the link to the knowledge portal and the knowledge portal will include the take home assignment templates as well.

And if there's something called deadline, the submission is mandatory, I would say so yes, because it will also allow you to get feedback from the team and understand how your tool can do better. If you submit the take home assignment, it will be beneficial to you as well. Yeah. May I compliment? But the quality of your submissions on the take home assignments doesn't affect your tool's evaluation score. It's different. It's just for the practice.

Yes, absolutely. It doesn't affect your actual winnings, but definitely for practice. Yes. Okay, maybe we have time for one last question before we came closer session. We're so sorry we're going over time, but maybe one last question.

I see a question from Eliza. She's saying that or they're saying that some government portals and databases state that web scraping is against that TOS, which means there's a criminal liability. What do we recommend in this case? Maybe it's I guess it's a combination of the technical and escape part as well. So maybe Dr. Witada, if you would like to answer or Dr. Atapun. I think Dr. With that, I can cover this question.

Thank you for the question. It's good questions. What we want to say is this exercise that we are doing is the research exercise. It's not data extractions or web hacking exercise. So we have not encountered any issues in our own in-house research when we do this research before. And because we didn't if you really uncomfortable with that particular case, you can check to other countries that you are not worried with or use other techniques.

Okay. Yeah. I hope that answers your question, Eliza. And that makes sense. Yeah. Okay. I guess we should close the meeting now because we are 10 minutes over time and this is quite late for some of our participants over here. If you have any more questions, please send us an email or we will also take the questions that are currently active in the Q&A box and we can send you an answer to them over email as well. I would like to thank everybody who has come over here and given us your time and attention. Thank you to Dr. Atapun, Dr. Witada, Dr. Tanavit, Dr. Samyut and Dr. Yann for your time today. We look forward to seeing you in our next session, which is on the 4th of June, which is a public session with a lot of interesting speakers. And on 5th of June, which is again a closed session, we will do a hands-on workshop. Thank you again and we'll see you all soon.

Thank you. Thank you very much. We'll see you again on 4th of June. Thank you.
